---
title: Recurse 2020, Week 5
date: "2020-02-07"
summary: "Moving In Setting Up"
---

# Week 5

## Moving In, Setting Up

That's right folks I'm moving in. To Emacs. I've been working recently on some
pretty cool Emacs stuff recently. In particular, I just pushed a change to my
[.emacs.d](https://github.com/crockeo/.emacs.d) repository recently that moves
[Jedi](https://github.com/davidhalter/jedi) in Emacs over from using pos-tip, to
using the wonderful [posframe](https://github.com/tumashu/posframe).

Most of Jedi already used posframe, because it uses
[company](https://company-mode.github.io/) as a backend, and company has a
really nice companion named
[company-posframe](https://github.com/tumashu/company-posframe) to do a lot of
this stuff for you. However, Jedi still uses a pos-tip-style popup for function
signatures, no matter what you have it set up to do otherwise. [So I fixed
it](https://github.com/crockeo/.emacs.d/commit/27ac2b96d51d2ddb8c774e52c10d28d095418799#diff-8977a62d34887c01af920033d7d508b1)!
Cool.

The way it works is that I add an advice function around `jedi:tooltip-show`,
which is used to present function definitions as part of
`jedi:get-in-function-call`. Instead of calling the normal function, it takes
the contents that would be rendered, and then presents them in a posframe. It
also formats the contents, with `jedi-posframe-format-contents`, and styles the
contents with `jedi-posframe-style-buffer`. All in all, the final product is
really simple, but this gave me a really good excuse to do some Emacs
learning. I think at that the end of the day, that's what I'm trying to get out
of RC, so I'm glad I put in the time.

## Natural Number Game: Be Gone

Yesterday marked my final day playing the Natural Number Game. I was stuck on
Inequality World, Level 15, where you have to prove one of the two directions of
the equivalent definitions of strict equality. In particular, you have to prove
that `a ≤ b ∧ ¬ (b ≤ a) ⟹ succ (a) ≤ b`. I got stuck for a while on this one,
because I was having a hard time working with `succ (a) ≤ b` after introducing a
third natural, `c`, and a hypothsis that `hc : b = a + c`. The proof became
really simple when I just used `cases` on c to get `hc : b = a + succ(c)`, and
could say `use c, rw hc` to make `a + succ(c) = succ(a) = c`, which is trivially
true by `succ_eq_add_one` and `simp`.

If that sounds like a lot of incomprehensible jargon: it is! Welcome to Lean, I
hope you have a great time. Also, if you're interested in working on automated
theorem checkers, then _check_ out [Lean](https://leanprover.github.io/),
[Theorem Proving in
Lean](https://leanprover.github.io/theorem_proving_in_lean/), and [The Natural
Number
Game](http://wwwf.imperial.ac.uk/~buzzard/xena/natural_number_game/). Have fun
y'all!

## Lunch Bot Deploy

Last but not least: Lunch Bot is LIVE. That's right, it's alive and well hanging
out on Heap at this very moment. If you're interested in trying it out, search
for "Lunch Bot" or "lunch-bot-bot@zulipchat.com" and send it a message. Maybe
try something like `help`?

I'm looking for feedback, and for someone to keep working on it after I leave
RC, so if you're interested in learning how to make a Zulip bot, or if you just
want to dig into some software, then please reach out to me. The code is hosted
[here](https://github.com/bern/lunch-bot)
