---
title: Recurse 2020, Week 1
date: "2020-01-10"
summary: "Math, math, and more math. Also a Zulip bot."
---

# Week 1

Week 1 of the Recurse Center! It's shocking to look back at my last time here, and think of all the things are the same. There's still some essential energy of the place that I remember here. The Recurse Center is now named the Recurse Center (instead of the prior "Hacker School"), it's hosted in a new building, it's 6 years in the future. Somehow, though, the energy is still the same. New faces are pursuing the same goals of self-improvement, with a single-minded focus that only an environment like the Recurse Center could provide.

I'm going to use the rest of this blog post to enumerate the things that I've worked on this week. Most of it is going to be abstract mathematics, so if you're not interested: scroll down to the Zulip Bot! That's going to be programming :)

## Abstract Algebra: Theory and Application

I've been working through [Abstract Algebra: Theory and Application](http://abstract.ups.edu/), an online open-source Abstract Algebra textbook. I've completed the first 5 chapters, up to Permutation Groups. I find myself torn on continuing at the pace I have been, because it feels like its usefulness is dwindling. Going in, I had been more interested in understanding the taxonomy of group- and ring-like structures that are formed by sets and their operations. After spending time in this book, I find that we're focusing strongly on groups. There are more interesting topics in the future ([isomorphisms](http://abstract.ups.edu/aata/isomorph.html), [rings](http://abstract.ups.edu/aata/rings.html), [lattices](http://abstract.ups.edu/aata/boolean.html), etc.) but I don't know how much prior reading I need to do on groups to fundamentally understand them.

I can only imagine that the textbook is structured such that sections make reference to antecedent sections, if only to root new ideas, so I can't just skip ahead. I think I'll just have to slog through earlier work to find the things that interest me. Hopefully I'll learn interesting things along the way :)

## Schapira's Notes on Topology

Nothing breeds impostor syndrome more than a text that is, by all accounts, too advanced for your current knowledge. I started reading Pierre Schapira's notes on [Algebra and Topology](https://webusers.imj-prg.fr/~pierre.schapira/lectnotes/AlTo.pdf), and found myself quickly lost. He was using algebraic strucutres I have no experience with to root conversations around "modules and linear maps," neither of which I now understand.

I think this is a valuable experience in and of itself. Learning is hard, and finding resources that match where you are in your learning process are crucial to achieving the learning you want. Another Recurser told me the name of a textbook, [Homotopy and Type Theory](https://hott.github.io/book/nightly/hott-online-1239-g9a4dadb.pdf), that was more on my level. I'm several sections in (at 1.4!) and I'm having a way better time.

## Homotopy and Type Theory

Like I mentioned above, I'm working through [Homotopy and Type Theory](https://hott.github.io/book/nightly/hott-online-1239-g9a4dadb.pdf). I find the proposal of Type Theory in this book as an interesting alternative to ZF(C) Set Theory. They propose that Type Theory provides an approach to defining mathematical structure with only one element, a type rather than the two required by ZF Set Theory. As someone, unknowingly, steeped in ZF Set Theory, it's hard for me to precisely understand the difference, but in short, Type Theory provides a similar basis of mathmatics under a univalient system, instead of a bivalent system.

ZF Set Theory provides two basic building blocks, first are the sets themselves. Second are the operations one performs on those sets. Additionally, ZF Set Theory relies extensively on the existing structure of first order predicate logic, which exists independently of the basic axioms of the set theory. In contrast, Type Theory (and Homotopic Type Theory) provides a structure of understanding math with a single kind: the type.

Now don't ask me to explain anything more interesting than that yet.

## A Zulip Bot

I'm collaborating with a couple of other Recursers to make the [lunch-bot](https://github.com/bern/lunch-bot)! Right now, lunch plans are made at the Recurse Center by signing up on a bunch of laminated pieces of paper on the 4th floor. We thought it was about time to modernize that system by making a Zulip chat bot that keeps track of lunch plans. No longer do you have to get up and actually _walk_ around. Instead, you can stay in your chair and plan from the comfort of across the room, or even on another floor! Incredible!
